coursera learning how to learn
diving deeper into memory
visual memory is easier for some things. making funny and memorable, and then repeating them will firmly lodge something into your memory

whenever you can add an image to a note card, do it.

what is long term memory?
the hippocampus is responsible for making new memories. called "memory consolidation"
whenever you recall a memory it changes. this is called reconsolidation.
consolidation and reconsolidation both occur during sleep. (exclusively?)

the memory palace technique
remembering numbers by associating them with memories. ie how you will feel at a given age.
the memory palace is taking a place you are familiar with, and sticking unfamiliar things in your familiar rooms.
this builds neural hooks. it is a bit of a hack, but it still helps people to build chunks, expand working memory and creativity.
being creative with your placement, size and mnemonics will greatly help aid retention.

working memory is like a poor blackboard that fades out over time
you have about 4 slots where you can store ideas in your wm.
chunking allows you to store a bigger idea in a slot.
associating a concept with an image or feeling will tap into more areas of the brain so it will be stored more easily.

week 4
exercize!!!
renaissance learning and unlocking your potential
learning doesn't always build linearly. sometimes it feels harder to recall things. this is a natural process that happens sometimes when your mind is reshuffling info around.
creating a visual metaphor or analogy can be the best way to build new hooks.
try to miniturize yourself and stick yourself into the image.
metaphors are never perfect, but they can still be immensely useful to remember things.

no need for genius envy
smaller working memories are associated with more creativity
deliberate practice is what can lift avg brains into gifted territory.
impostor syndrome is real, and unneeded. everyone has struggles, the only important thing is how you deal with them.

practice can make signifigant changes in your brain.
darwin was a poor student. he set off on his around the world journey after dropping out of med school.

in general, the right hemisphere helps with big-picture analysis. it can act as a devil's advocate.
people theorize that the left hemisphere is in charge of interpreting the world, and it is stubborn and does not want to change it's mind.

stepping back to check your work means that you are using your left and then right brain, and it is a great way to find better answers, and cement correct answers into place.

working with others is also a great way to challenge your conclusions and get validation.

TESTING YOURSELF IS IMPORTANT!
	taking a test is much more effective in remembering things than reviewing notes.

TESTING CHECKLIST
	did you make a serious effort to understand the text?
	did you work with classmates to check homework solutions
	did you attempt to outline every homework solution?
	did you participate actively in homework group discussions?
	did you consult with the instructor if you had trouble?
	did you understand all of the solutions when they were handed in?
	did you adk in class for explanations of homework problem solutions that weren't clear to you?
	if you had a study guide, did you use it before the test and are you sure that you know the info in it?
	did you attempt to outline lits of problem solutions quickly? (you shoul not try this)
	did you go over the study guide with classmates and quiz each other?
	did you go to the review sesson?
	did you get a reasonable night's sleep before the test?

hard start - jump to easy
	this is the eat the frog concept.
	start with the hard problems, look at them first and then switch quickly if you are having trouble. move to something easier, then try something harder after that. The benefit of this is that you can have the diffuse mode work during the easy question on the hard question in the back of your mind. The only trick with this approach is that you need to have the discipline to not grind down to a stop on the hard question. you want to keep moving, especially if there is partial credit.

final helpful test tips
	how you interpret test related stress is super critical.
	interpreting stress as excitement will mentally help harness that energy.
	breathing is also very useful. deep breathing in the beginning can flow throughout the test.
	have a plan b in the face of failure. ie how can you do better on the next test might help you be less stressed on the current one
	preparing a little bit the day before the test can help to prep the brain by refreshing the hooks and pathways.
	switching order when reviewing the  test answers can give you a fresh perspective and help spot mistakes.

